### Opportunities for Graduate Students

[Dr. Ashish Ranjan](https://experts.umn.edu/en/persons/ashish-ranjan) (Plant Path) and Dr. Laura Shannon (Hort Sci) are hiring a PhD student to map scab resistance in diploid and tetraploid potatoes starting Fall 2022. Scab is a major potato disease which effects marketability resulting in losses for growers. One of the best ways to prevent scab is to plant resistant varieties. We are looking for a student to screen the UMN potato breeding program for common scab resistance and map resistance loci in tetraploid germplasm. Diploid potatoes provide a more tractable organism for genetic research and will be used for fine mapping and functional analysis. Additionally, this student will be responsible for analyzing RenSeq data on powdery scab resistance in a breeding program. These projects will be collaborations with Pepsi Co and NDSU. The student will conduct field, lab, and computational research and gain experience with plant pathology, breeding, and genetic analysis in both diploids and tetraploids. 

Potential students are invited to apply through the APS, PMB, or BICB programs. If interested, please email Dr. Shannon (lmshannon@umn.edu) and Dr. Ranjan (aranjan@umn.edu) with a description of your interests, a CV, and any published work we should note and/or any questions you have about the position.  

We, your prospective advisors, work to create the kind of diverse scientific communities we want to be part of within our labs. People of all backgrounds are encouraged to apply and we expect applicants to have a similar commitment to creating and maintaining an inclusive environment where potatoes, pathogens, and people can grow. 

Applicants with a master’s degree in a related field and experience with next gen sequencing data are preferred. The proposed research involves agricultural field work, which will, with reasonable accommodations, include transporting 50+ lbs crates of potatoes and bags of soil, moving through fields, riding farm equipment, and digging. Furthermore, it will involve overnight travel to research sites within Minnesota. Students without a valid driver’s license will be asked to obtain one upon beginning the program.

### Opportunities for Researchers

The Shannon laboratory is seeking 2 professional researchers to join the potato breeding, genetics, and genomics team. The intent is to hire 2 positions at the Researcher 1 level, but Researcher 2 classification will be considered for highly qualified candidates. To apply, please submit applications for both postings according to your qualifications and interests by going [here](https://humanresources.umn.edu/content/find-job) and searching for job ID 343424 and 343423. Salary commensurate with qualifications and classification. This position includes a generous benefits package described [here](https://humanresources.umn.edu/sites/humanresources.umn.edu/files/2021_tcd-cslr-75100-ben-0105-7_final.pdf).